:original_name: dws_04_0901.html

.. _dws_04_0901:

Settings
========

synchronous_commit
------------------

**Parameter description**: Specifies the synchronization mode of the current transaction.

**Type**: USERSET

**Value range**: enumerated values

-  **on** indicates synchronization logs of a standby server are updated to disks.
-  **off** indicates asynchronous commit.
-  **local** indicates local commit.
-  **remote_write** indicates synchronization logs of a standby server are written to disks.
-  **remote_receive** indicates synchronization logs of a standby server are required to receive data.

**Default value**: **on**

wal_skip_fpw_level
------------------

**Parameter description**: Specifies whether to write the whole page to WALs when a page is modified for the first time after a checkpoint on a DN. This parameter controls if FPWs of different kinds are logged in WAL to avoid space shortage or slow synchronization between primary and standby nodes due to too many WAL logs. This parameter is supported by cluster versions 8.3.0 and later. For versions earlier than 8.3.0, see **write_fpi_hint**.

**Type**: USERSET

**Value range**: an integer

-  **0**: enables All FPWs.
-  **1**: specifies that when setting hintbits for the heap tuples is the first change since checkpoint, FPW logs are not written. Whether this function takes effect is not affected by the **enable_crc_check** and **wal_log_hints** parameters. If this parameter is set to **1**, it is equivalent to **write_fpi_hint=off** in an earlier version. For details, **see write_fpi_hint**.
-  2: FPW logs of indexes and FPW logs after the hintbits on the heap page is modified are not recorded.

**Default value**: **1**

wal_decelerate_policy
---------------------

**Parameter description**: Specifies the behavior policy after rate limiting is triggered. This parameter is supported only by clusters of 8.2.0 and later versions.

**Type**: USERSET

**Value range**: enumerated values

-  **warning** indicates that an alarm is generated but the rate is not limited.
-  **decelerate** indicates that the rate will be limited based on policy settings.

**Default value**: **warning**

.. note::

   Setting the parameter to **warning** does not affect performance. Setting it to **decelerate** will limit the rate based on policy settings if the rate exceeds the threshold.

wal_write_speed
---------------

**Parameter description**: Specifies the maximum WAL write speed (byte/s) allowed by each query on a single DN. This parameter is supported only by clusters of 8.2.0 or later.

**Type**: USERSET

**Value range**: an integer ranging from 1024 to 10240000, in KB.

**Default value**: **30MB**

.. note::

   The rate of a large number of jobs with index copy and deletion operations will be limited.

wal_decelerate_trigger_threshold
--------------------------------

**Parameter description**: Specifies the threshold of WAL write rate limiting for each query on a single DN. This parameter is supported only by cluster versions 8.2.0 and later.

**Type**: USERSET

**Value range**: an integer ranging from 1024 to 100000000000, in KB.

**Default value**: **128MB**

.. note::

   This function is triggered only if the number of Xlogs generated by a single query is greater than the value of this parameter. DDL operations or a small number of DML operations are not affected.

.. _en-us_topic_0000001811490365__seb6fde0eb5bf4b5488d9f6069aeeaa5c:

commit_delay
------------

**Parameter description**: Specifies the duration of committed data be stored in the WAL buffer.

**Type**: USERSET

**Value range**: an integer, ranging from 0 to 100000 (unit: μs). **0** indicates no delay.

**Default value**: **0**

.. important::

   -  When this parameter is set to a value other than 0, the committed transaction is stored in the WAL buffer instead of being written to the WAL immediately. Then, the WalWriter process flushes the buffer out to disks periodically.
   -  If system load is high, other transactions are probably ready to be committed within the delay. If no transactions are waiting to be submitted, the delay is a waste of time.

commit_siblings
---------------

**Parameter description**: Specifies a limit on the number of ongoing transactions. If the number of ongoing transactions is greater than the limit, a new transaction will wait for the period of time specified by :ref:`commit_delay <en-us_topic_0000001811490365__seb6fde0eb5bf4b5488d9f6069aeeaa5c>` before it is submitted. If the number of ongoing transactions is less than the limit, the new transaction is immediately written into a WAL.

**Type**: USERSET

**Value range**: an integer ranging from 0 to 1000

**Default value**: **5**

wal_compression
---------------

**Parameter description**: Specifies whether to compress FPI pages.

**Type**: USERSET

**Value range**: Boolean

-  **on**: enable the compression
-  **off**: disable the compression

**Default value**: **on**

.. important::

   -  Only zlib compression algorithm is supported.
   -  For clusters that are upgraded to the current version from an earlier version, this parameter is set to **off** by default. You can run the **gs_guc** command to enable the FPI compression function if needed.
   -  If the current version is a newly installed version, this parameter is set to **on** by default.
   -  If this parameter is manually enabled for a cluster upgraded from an earlier version, the cluster cannot be rolled back.

wal_compression_level
---------------------

**Parameter description**: Specifies the compression level of zlib compression algorithm when the **wal_compression** parameter is enabled.

**Type**: USERSET

**Value range**: an integer ranging from 0 to 9.

-  **0** indicates no compression.
-  **1** indicates the lowest compression ratio.
-  **9** indicates the highest compression ratio.

**Default value**: **9**
